Docs: new section for contributing (#11812)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/contributing/code-contributions.md

---

> title: Code Contributions

Reviewer: This document covers contributing content so I find the title misleading, but I don't really have better alternative

Author: I can see that. The experience is pretty intertwined, I didn't see a clear way to separate them without repeating stuff....but happy to take suggestions

Author: Ah here's why it's confusing: blog content and the website are all grouped into "code contributions". I could make separate pages for "blog contributions" and "website contributions", but it's a slippery slope to too many pages.

---

> The beauty of contributing to open source is that you can clone your favorite framework, get it running locally, and test out experiments and changes in real time! Way to feel like a wizard.

Reviewer 2: Small nit: but people contribute to a lot of things, not just frameworks!

```suggestion
The beauty of contributing to open source is that you can clone your favorite project, get it running locally, and test out experiments and changes in real time! Way to feel like a wizard.
```

This page includes instructions specific to the Gatsby core codebase, blog, and website. To start setting up the Gatsby repo on your machine, check out the page on [setting up your local dev environment](/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/). For additional instructions on contributing to the docs, visit the [docs contributions page](/contributing/docs-contributions/).

## Making changes to the website

> If you want to make more changes to the website functionality or documentation, that is, change layout components or templates, add sections/pages, follow the steps for [setting up your local dev environment](/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/). You can then spin up your own instance of the Gatsby website and make/preview your changes before raising

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to make changes, improvements, or add new functionality to the website or documentation follow the steps for [setting up your local dev environment](/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/). You can then spin up your own instance of the Gatsby website and make/preview your changes before raising
```

> If you want to make more changes to the website functionality or documentation, that is, change layout components or templates, add sections/pages, follow the steps for [setting up your local dev environment](/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/). You can then spin up your own instance of the Gatsby website and make/preview your changes before raising

Reviewer: You don't need to make same setup (including `gatsby-dev-cli`, etc) to contribute to the website code. I know this was moved from current contributing section, but might be good opportunity to fix our mistake?

First 3 steps from below (contributing to the blog) is enough to get going:

> - Clone [the Gatsby repo](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/) and navigate to `/www`
> - Run `yarn` to install all of the website's dependencies.
> - Run `npm run develop` to preview the blog at `http://localhost:8000/blog`.

And people can start hacking on website code.

To develop on the starter library, you'll need to supply a GitHub personal access token.

1. Create a personal access token in your GitHub [Developer settings](https://github.com/settings/tokens).
2. In the new token's settings, grant that token the "public_repo" scope.
3. Create a file in the root of `www` called `.env.development`, and add the token to that file like so:

```text:title=.env.development
GITHUB_API_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE
```

The `.env.development` file is ignored by git. Your token should never be committed.

## Contributing to the blog

Note: Before adding a blog post ensure you have approval from a member of the Gatsby team. You can do this by [opening an issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/new/choose) or contacting [@gatsbyjs on Twitter](https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs).

To add a new blog post to the gatsbyjs.org blog:

- Clone [the Gatsby repo](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/) and navigate to `/www`

> - Run `yarn` to install all of the website's dependencies.

Reviewer 2: Not necessary, but maybe we link to a "Why Yarn?" section of the existing [documentation here](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/how-to-contribute/#using-yarn)? It's a pretty common question as to _why_ we require it.

- Run `npm run develop` to preview the blog at `http://localhost:8000/blog`.
- The content for the blog lives in the `/docs/blog` folder. Make additions or modifications here.
- Add your avatar image to `/docs/blog/avatars`
- Add your name to `/docs/blog/author.yaml`
- Add a new folder following the pattern `/docs/blog/yyyy-mm-dd-title`. Within this newly created folder add an `index.md` file.

> - Add `title`, `date`, `author`, and `tags` ([view existing tags](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/tags/) or add a new one) to the frontmatter of your `index.md`. If you are cross posting your post you can add `canonicalLink` for SEO benefits. You can check the other blog posts in `/docs/blog` for examples.

Reviewer 2: Would it be valuable to have an example here? I've heard that the general term "frontmatter" isn't always known to people:

````
```md
---
title: "Your Great Blog Post"
date: YYYY-MM-DD
author: John Doe
tags:
  - awesome
  - post
---

Your next great blog post awaits.
```
````

Author: Great idea. I seem to remember it only allows a singular author, is that still true? Are tags optional?

Reviewer 2: > I seem to remember it only allows a singular author, is that still true

Correct! But it would be fairly trivial to get multiple author support if we want that

> Are tags optional

Yep! If a post doesn't have tags, we just render `null`. It's probably a best practice to add at least one though.

- If your blog post contains images add them to your blog post folder and reference them in your post's `index.md`.
- Ensure any links to gatsbyjs.org are relative links - `/contributing/how-to-contribute/` instead of `https://gatsbyjs.org/contributing/how-to-contribute`
- Follow the [Style Guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/#word-choice) to make sure you're using the appropriate wording.

> - Double check your grammar and capitalise correctly

Reviewer 2: I have no idea if we have a preference here 🤷‍♂️ 

```suggestion
- Double check your grammar and capitalize correctly
```

- Commit and push to your fork
- Create a pull request from your branch

>   - We recommend using a prefix of `docs`, e.g. `docs/your-change` or `docs-your-change`

Reviewer 3: Should we link to a canonical example PR, such as https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/commit/9c21394add7906974dcfd22ad5dc1351a99d7ceb#diff-bf544fce773d8a5381f64c37d48d9f12?

Author: Yes! Great idea.
